"Wondering if your Google Ads campaign is set up for success or if you're missing critical elements?


I've created a comprehensive bird's-eye view checklist to help you identify leaks and opportunities in your Google Ads strategy.


This tool will help you assess the health of your campaigns and ensure nothing falls through the cracks.


To get this valuable resource:
- Repost this
- Like
- Comment ""bird""


I'll send the checklist directly to you.


P.S. I'm also including a special BONUS that will provide ongoing support for your Google Ads efforts.


Here's to your success!


#GoogleAdsStrategy #DigitalMarketing #PaidSearch #PPC #SEA #SEM"
"This year's Smarter Services Executive Symposium is shaping up to be our best event🎉 Not only have we hit record-breaking attendance and a 50% increase in new companies, but just look at our line-up of mainstage speakers! This is definitely a can't-miss event for all leaders in service and support. If you haven't registered yet, you still have 12 days left: https://lnkd.in/ga4M44jJ


#2024smarterservices #serviceandsupport #fieldservice #operations #supplychain #chicago"
"🚨 2 years ago, I was afraid AI and creative strategy would replace my job. (Thankfully, I was WRONG!) 


**Edit: Giveaway over**
Get this + 33 of my resources with my ultimate toolkit here at a one time fee of $129: https://bit.ly/3LS1N88


 
I went nuts and turned around things for myself with: 
- Religiously studying the top gurus 
- Workshops, Newsletters & Podcasts 
- And, of course, $25M+ in ad spends + 52+ projects  
 
I am sharing my learnings with: 
👉 51 ChatGPT Prompts for Ad Strategy 
👉 Ad Strategy Research Guide 
👉 Ad Scripting SOP & Examples 
👉 Ad Ideation SOP  
👉 Video Ad Editing SOP 
👉 Creative Testing Methodology for Meta Ads 
 
 
-- 
🔔🔔 If you found this valuable, pls follow me (hit my name) and hit the bell icon on my profile for instant notifications. 🔔🔔"
"🔥 Stop flying blind with your ""Ad Creatives"". Grab these Prompts to drive results and save time 👊


After 6 months of hard work, I've curated a collection of prompts that guarantee success — no more guesswork.


The guide includes:
➤ Research techniques for insights
➤ Brainstorming methods 
➤ Scripts Ideation
➤ Concepts development 
➤ Analyzing creatives and performance


✅ Step-by-step instructions + video tutorial on creative analysis!


I promise ZERO fluff, only clear action items. 


Grab them now: https://lnkd.in/d88AYThv


PS: Follow Aniruddha Mishra for daily value bombs like these."
When you accidentally accepted all of the Google Ads recommendations
"The efficiency metrics on Lead Gen are brutal if you model them out. I just did this yesterday combining a client's historical data with the State of Demand Report from Metadata.


Here are the outputs of those inputs:


In the best scenario I modeled, the client would need to spend $20,890 per month alone on Lead Gen initiatives. 


They would close 1 out of every 160 of those leads. 


That's .6% if you're into ratios.


The cost per customer acquisition would be almost $40K.


That doesn't even account for the time spent by content, SDRs, and performance marketing to stand up that campaign and work the leads.


The worst scenario would require them to spend nearly $50K PER MONTH on their lead gen campaigns. 


1 out of every 327 leads would close.


POINT THREE PERCENT!


Client was thinking of spending $7500 per month to start on this. 


This means in the worst scenario, it would take over 6.5 months for them to close a single customer from this program. 


In the best scenario, it would take just under 3 months.


And they'd miss plan by anywhere from 40 to 70%


We do ourselves a disservice looking at these tactics as anything other than a chance to pump a vanity metric up. 


We need to think more critically about how to elevate the marketing profession to be more than a trough for handing inefficient leads off to sales to make them not take our work seriously.


It's neither's fault. This program and belief system is broken and doesn't deserve the outsized effort it gets compared to others. 


Any historical analysis or half-decent goal modeling will show how much of a time and money suck this is.


Ween yourself off this and adjust your strategy accordingly."
My Saved Item list after another day of scrolling through LinkedIn
Read all about it! What you need to know about Google Mobile First Index https://lnkd.in/eqGDGNG
The new Google Search Console will contain 16 months of data. Rejoice!! https://lnkd.in/e4qQYEf
Consider using these scripts for smarter bidding. https://lnkd.in/eV5mb9R
Page loading speed is going to be a factor in how your site ranks. See how your quickly your site loads and make the tweaks. https://lnkd.in/eW4JvkT
Now Hubspot Inbound Marketing and Content Marketing Certified!
Newly Google AdWords and Analytics certified!
"It's a wrap on Inbound 2017. Fantastic learning conference, as usual. So much to take in, however, video was emphasized, as well as concentrating on topics rather than keywords. Always be helpful. 


Fantastic keynotes, tips and inspiration a plenty."
Not a bad way to be greeted after a week of vacation!
Wow! This infographic is unreal.
Results don't happen overnight. Test, measure, and adjust when necessary.
For those in the B2B or B2C space, is your content marketing strategy and approach more successful than a year ago? Even two years ago?
For those in the B2B or B2C space, is your content marketing strategy and approach more successful than a year ago? Even two years ago?
Very helpful. These suggestions apply for those attending any conference for the first time.




Very excited to start my new position at TPC Wire & Cable Corp. on Monday! Ready to get back at it!!
Here's a good list of the top marketing conferences to attend in 2017.
There's no shortage of marketing software solutions, that's for sure.
Good read. Time for marketers to be hybrid-marketers that dabble in both marketing and technology.






https://lnkd.in/eMGZ-hx




Seems like we're being double-taxed. Kinda like taxing an inheritance as that money's been taxed so much, it's being taxed again. I guess the ride is over, especially since FB has gone public. They have shareholders to answer to now. I 'Like' a lot of brands content and it's not being shown in my timeline and it has nothing to do with the content being engaging.
If you're using Hubspot and had issues with persona, they've just made it so much easier with the Persona app. Bravo! http://lnkd.in/dQcWy5r
Newly HubSpot certified
This would make a great infographic...thanks for shaing Joe!