I conducted a great interview with  Jay Acunzo recently covering how important it is to find a unique story in B2B and a method for doing it. Essential reading.
Interesting article from old friend Adam Ketterer from Beneath. essentially a discussion of what we three think about the current state of positioning and branding for B2B tech. Worth a read I think. https://lnkd.in/evmVXTwc
"I just interviewed Anthony Kennada, the CEO and founder of AudiencePlus, a SaaS platform that helps B2B marketers build audiences and pipeline by taking a different approach. It feels like a discontinuity. Read it here:
https://lnkd.in/g2PxgtmW


It's the third in a series of interviews we've done with B2B industry luminaries like Jon Miller and Idi Ledergor. Read them here:


https://lnkd.in/gyBZ4gsz


https://lnkd.in/gvQYNT9W"
"Years of things getting harder in B2B marketing have been building to this moment. 


Leads aren’t converting like they used to — for a million reasons that mostly boil down to marketers sacrificing long-term plays and audience goodwill for short-term lead-gen metrics. 


The people we’re trying to talk to aren’t interested in being rushed into a sales pipeline just because they downloaded an eBook. 


Or when we “nurture” them by flooding their in-boxes with content that doesn’t respect their intelligence or buying stage. 


And when those tactics started getting worse results, marketers doubled down. 


The time for doubling down is over. 


It’s time to let go of incremental gains and update the old B2B Go-To-Market playbook in a big way. 


To end the false dichotomy of brand vs. performance. 


And that’s exciting. Whether or not you chose B2B marketing or accidentally tripped into it on your way to a B2C interview, the new brand-driven, long-term, actually strategic B2B is fun as hell. It requires real vision and creativity — the stuff that takes time and deep thinking. 


It’s work you’ll be proud of. 


Never mind that the results are real and lasting when you get it right.


Our blog series goes into what’s changed in B2B, what the smartest people in the biz have to say, and what to do about all of it. I’m as stuck in B2B marketing as they come, but writing the series has given me so many aha moments and rekindled my love for this job — I hope you find some of those moments in it yourself. Start here > https://lnkd.in/ePbZbUiq


And then check out the culmination of all our thinking over the last year: A new sort-of B2B manifesto - link is in the comments.


LFG!"
"If you’re any kind of marketer in B2B, you’ll have felt things shifting underfoot recently. 


The industry is staring down an effectiveness crisis. Traditional sales activation tactics are delivering fewer (and worse) leads. Buyers are disengaging. Pipeline is plummeting. 


You’ve got two choices:


Try to brute force results (more paid media, more sugar rush leads and endless (and fruitless) sales qualification) 
        
Make big moves to drive up effectiveness (get serious about bringing brand, creativity and performance into one connected plan)


Get the lowdown ⬇️.


Then check out the Big, Beautiful B2B Blueprint workbook in the comments!"
"Try as I might to call this the big-ass B2B blueprint (seriously, it’d give your printer a panic attack), now it’s finally out in the wild, I’m relieved to say I was overruled.


The Big, *Beautiful* B2B Blueprint is here. I think it’s the best encapsulation going right now of the hardest and most valuable thing B2B marketers can do to get pipeline back on track. 


I’m super proud of it, and grateful to work with a bunch of smart-as-hell folks who helped make it."
"Two top B2B marketers discuss our recent B2B Manifesto. Worth listening to.


https://lnkd.in/enwvqXHF"
"We’ve been saying for a while that the B2B GTM playbook used by most tech firms is not as effective as it needs to be. 


Following our recent Manifesto where we argue brand is back, we’re delighted to announce a new workbook designed to help hard pressed CMOs deliver the pipeline they need. 


Be warned, this is long and to follow its precepts you need attention to detail, the right data and the right mindset. But we think it pays detailed attention. Read it here."
"When revenue’s down, many B2B brands simplify their offering to make it easier for customers to buy. But sometimes this move backfires badly. 


Simplifying *can* be a great move. If you sell a complex platform or a portfolio that’s grown over time, you should periodically adjust your offer. 


But simplification can also go very wrong. Companies panic when market conditions go south — and often make big changes in an effort to do something. 


I’ve seen brands over-bundle and price themselves out of their base’s budget. I’ve seen a company make a bad bet on reprioritizing around a market segment with little interest in their product.


But maybe the most common mistake I see brands make — in good times and bad — is over-consolidating their story and offer into generic messaging that loses any specific value. 


I get why it happens. It’s hard to protect specificity when you’re looking for the common denominator between, say, your platform and your point solutions. 


But going full-on vanilla also leads many companies to end up at some version of “streamline your operations.” (Look at any three B2B websites: they probably all say some version of Get more out of your data / Accelerate or boost revenue / Save time and money).


Over-simplification produces messages that are both bland and hyperbolic — a short trip to blah-ville. 


If you’re thinking about simplifying your offer, read the blog. Here are a few highlights:: 


🔎 Find something your platform and point solution audiences both want 
And make sure it’s also an urgent need. Base your narrative on a shared pain point or aspiration. 


🚴🏾Introduce a fresh spin 
The ideal story won’t just differentiate your solutions — it’ll provide a crystal-clear choice between your platform and products that helps users self-select into the right content.


💡Highlight your unique outcomes 
Ditch generic claims your competitors can make like “boost revenue” in favor of ones only YOU can make. Get specific. 


🚏Signpost your target audience 
Saying your product is for everyone raises readers’ bullshit detectors. You know what’s credible? Signal whom your solution is meant for — and whom it isn’t. 


Finally, simplifying your offering isn’t just a marketing task — it’s a decision with broad implications for your business, like how and whom you sell to, how much you charge if bundling, and how long your sales cycle will take. 


You might find you need help bringing Sales, Product, Finance, Marketing and others together on this critical decision. Don’t be afraid to get experienced help. 


Read the full blog and feel free to follow us or give us a shout if this feels like a you-shaped problem. 


https://lnkd.in/eGyYFN-Y"
"Social media platforms, search engines and advertising platforms have shown us time and again that they can’t be trusted with our audiences.


But marketers are addicted to solving the social media puzzle, devoting lifetimes of energy to divining the arcane whims of algorithms (instead of building a brand customers are drawn to).


Wrestling back control of audiences from platforms that keep changing the rules to their advantage isn’t a quick fix — but the results are profound and long-lasting.


Think of companies like Salesforce or Gong. They’ve become indispensable to their audiences by providing insanely useful content, data people can’t get anywhere else, and comprehensive resources.


Their prospects seek them out without being told to by expensive ads, willingly subscribe to their lists, and listen closely when they talk.


It’s the ultimate owned distribution.


And their astronomical growth isn’t surprising given this extraordinary advantage. You can’t just throw money at ads to get that kind of audience stickiness (or what Gong’s chief evangelist Udi Ledergor calls ‘memory links’).


Paid ad spend still has its place: it can absolutely help you build an audience. But it’s by bringing more people to your door rather than generating a bunch of leads. It’s what you do to entice that audience back that really matters.


So how do you create an audience on your ‘owned land’ — your digital properties — instead of rented spaces like social and SEM? Our CEO Stan Woods shares thoughts in our new blog.


(Oh, and we give you permission to make any kind of snide gesture you want at your paid search providers when they raise their prices or change the rules… again).


https://lnkd.in/e2Rx_PCJ"
"When is a subject matter interview more than just a fact-finding mission? Every damn time. 


If you’re just there to find out what the interviewee thinks, you’re not adding value. 


I’ve interviewed [hundreds] of people in B2B tech, from CEOs to CTOS to the most technical engineering head. Nearly every one of them had an incredibly well-honed elevator pitch. 


Interviews don’t start until you cut through that pitch. It’s full of safe, surface-level, already approved ideas that won’t help you craft a bold story that can move a market. 


Knowing shit they don’t know about their own market will help you craft questions that get people to lean forward and actually think.


I live for the moment when a SME takes a long pause, squints and says, “That’s a really good question.” 


Everything they say before that moment is bullshit. 


Our blog about interviewing SMEs (link in the comments) has great tips for shocking your SME out of that complacency. 


I’ll add one of my own: prepare like hell but be ready to pivot. 


Do more than surface-level prep: Read the analyst reports. Go down the Reddit rabbithole. Dig up dirt on their competitors. 


And then — and this is where I think most people whiff interviews — come in with a strong hypothesis. 


Otherwise, your SMEs are leading storytelling. And … they’re not good at it. That’s your job. 


Coming in with a strong hypothesis is also a great way to establish your authority. 


And if you’re doing something tricky like positioning a brand, you’re going to need an awful lot of authority to avoid having your story ‘by-committeed’ to pale oblivion.   


If you want the tips, see the blog link in the comments."
"Nice to see Google agreeing with us that #brand is ultra important to SEM


#b2bmarketing"
Benchmarks, benchmarks everywhere, but not a drop to drink.
About 13-14 years ago we produced something called the B2B Manifesto. It was a call for B2B marketing department action and a plea for ambition as the industry moved aggressively into the world of inbound. We’ve revisited that manifesto in light of the changing B2B marketing go to market that’s changing the ways tech firms attract and win new customers. Definitely worth a read.
"Whether or not B2B marketers believe it or not, a great product will make you *feel* things. The kind of feelings that power stellar marketing. 


In the It Shipped That Way podcast, absolute legend Adam Lisagor, founder of Sandwich, explains: 


“A good product will change you in some way: it’ll change the way you interact with the world, the way you see yourself, your capacity to do things or know things — and all of those are really big feelings.”


This might go double for a B2B product. Something that gives you superpowers at work? A thing that can change the trajectory of your career? 


That’s absolutely going to give you big feelings. 


But B2Bers cling to the idea that feelings and complex subject matter don’t mix. 


That the job is only to clearly articulate features and benefits — and not tell a great story. 


Take a look at the ad Sandwich did for Postman, an API dev platform (link in the comments). It doesn’t go deep into the offer. The product interface is on screen for like nine seconds. 
                                                
But every element (script, set, setting, sound, shots, actors) conveys the feeling of using Postman: smart people breezily doing impressive things. 


As a #B2B marketer, you should be using your creative skills for stuff like that. Think: 


📚 More story  


❤️More passion 


🎬 Language and design and other elements that signal how someone will *feel* using your product


You will encounter some skeptical and/or terrified product managers. That’s OK: One of your core jobs is helping them go beyond the features to find the story. 


It’s really hard, but it’s stuff like this that makes marketing absurdly fun. 


Follow our page if you’re into this kind of thing. > Velocity Partners"
"I had a great conversation with Udi Ledergor 🏳‍🌈, formerly CMO of Gong all about the relationship of brand to pipeline building. Check it out here.
#b2bmarketing"
"Had a great chat with Jon Miller the other day, one of the architects of accountable marketing. Read the outcome here. It's the first in a series of interviews with people shaping the new B2B go-to-market playbook.


https://lnkd.in/eBTn88mP"
"Any marketer sending an email is fighting to catch a salmon in a river of shit. And it’s about to get worse … UNLESS. 


Unless you do something different. 


But first, a rant. 
 
Marketing emails used to enjoy a 70% click-through rate just for showing up. 


Not anymore. 


And it’s our fault. 


Think of your inbox: saturated by a river of shit from marketers. 


And it’s about to get worse faster than a chatGPT-obsessed CMO can shout, “Scale, bitches!” from atop his treadmill desk. 


People have become absolutely immune to templated emails that play the Best Practices game. 


You know the ones: 


- Opening stat
- 1-2 sentences about Thing You’re Marketing 
- The sacred List of Three Benefits 
- CTA to landing page 


Safe, templated stuff like this doesn’t work today because readers have been best-practiced to death.


BUT … 


Great copywriters can still write emails to catch salmon in a river of shit.


How? BY THROWING OUT BEST PRACTICES. I will not apologize for the shouting. Templated thinking is boring your audience to death and killing your CTR.  


Our recent blog (see link in comments) has some suggestions to get you moving. Here are some highlights:


👠 Vary length and style 
A nurture campaign is supposed to build interest — so keep your audience guessing. For instance, try sending one email that’s just a line or two of copy. 


🎼 Harmonize the nurture flow with the product
An ideal nurture flow of a campaign will reflect something about the product or service it’s marketing. 


Like a nurture campaign touting the importance of timely user engagement for app adoption. On Day 1, we told targets that they were now in CleverTap’s automation flow, and that if they were their own app user there was a 30% chance they would already have abandoned it. 


The next email told them their app abandon rate would have jumped to 70%. 


When the payoff is relevant to the thing you’re marketing, you’ve got people’s attention.  


🎮 Do more within the email
Best practices tell us an email is just a conduit to a landing page. But what about getting people excited to interact with the email itself?


Think: interesting stats that you can create a poll around. A simple yes/no question and tell them you'll answer at the next stage of the journey. Gamification. 


🕵️Test, test, test
Working in some A/B testing metrics at different points of your campaign is a great way to reinvent the format. Test a real hypothesis like “two sentence-emails work better than five-sentence ones” and then USE the results. 


We have a lot more to say about this, plus a fascinating tale of how writing emails today is like catching a bored and not-hungry salmon in a river of shit. Link in the comments! And follow our page if you like this kind of thing."
"Think about this: Salesforce, Uber and Netflix didn’t actually invent any new tech. But no one’s accusing them of being light on innovation. 


We already had CRMs, taxis, apps, streaming software… but these heavy-hitting disruptors combined it all into new business models. 


And reaped beaucoup benefits largely because they succeeded in marketing these new business models. 


There are lots of B2B brands who should use that playbook. What makes you special may not, in fact, be the tech innovation you deliver but how you deliver it: your business model. 


There are TONS of benefits to hyping your business model instead of your tech:


- A new business model is inherently interesting.
- You’re jumping right past people’s bullshit detectors — because instead of making claims most people won’t believe, your business model is a built-in reason to believe you can deliver the benefits you say you can.
- Once people understand your new model (more about that below), they can see how you’re able to deliver the new value — it’s credible and compelling.
- If you can convince people you’re actually offering something new, you’re suddenly on a very short shortlist.


Marketing a new business model isn’t right for everyone — but when it is right, it’s magic. 


Some things you need to do to make it work: 


✏️ Name your model.
Before you even explain what’s new about your model — you need buyers to understand that it IS new. Generic language doesn’t help. So name your model, then define it. 


💁🏾 Explain how your model is different.
If buyers get your model, they get how you’re different. So make it easy by creating a prominent page on your website that defines your model and explains the advantages. 


📚 Play with metaphors.
Even new models are rarely *completely* new. Metaphors that build on an existing category in a different market can help buyers get there faster. Think “Hubspot of medical practice marketing.”


🔗 Connect your new model directly to buyer benefits.
Different is great but you have to show BETTER. Be very clear that your model delivers benefits your buyer can’t get anywhere else. 


🛁 Evangelize. Rinse, wash and repeat.
Do it in content, ebooks, videos, white papers, blog posts, emails, webinars… and make sure Sales does, too.


🎯 Pick off key stakeholders and explain the model to them. 
Find the blockers and address their concerns. 


❓ Answer all their questions before they ask them. 
New models will always trigger lots of questions. Your marketing should answer them at every step. 


🎭 Use customer stories.  
No one wants to be your lab rat — so show you’ve A) done this and B) it worked. 


Want to see real-life examples? Find Doug’s blog in the comments. And follow our page — tech B2B marketing is changing faster than Netflix is axing your favourite show and we’re gonna be talking more about this."
"B2B tech marketing has a weirdness problem. It’s not what you think: we’re not doing enough weird. 


(It’s certainly not because B2B marketers aren’t weird enough. You are. We’ve been to enough conferences and stayed for the after-hours stuff). 


Actually, what we have is a confidence problem: marketers are so caught up in trying to prove our cred to our smart, notoriously marketing-averse customers…


That we drown them in hard facts. We forget that there are actual humans reading our stuff. 


Weird ones, who usually get pretty worked up trying to solve very deep, gritty problems. The ones we’re trying to help them solve. 


They want our help. They need us to establish credibility so they can believe us. 


What they don’t want is to be bored. They’re not corporate drones. 


They’ve never, not once, stood around a pool table talking about ‘leveraging data to achieve business outcomes.’ 


Because that’s boring. And these are not boring people. 


(Have you ever met a deeply intelligent person who was really normal? I haven’t. I don’t want to). 


Marketing that treats the odder fringes of its audience with respect and playfulness can achieve a level of relevance that no amount of product-market fit can match.


Don’t believe us? We recently came across the most insane, deeply weird corner of the internet when getting very deep in DNS research and found a bunch of network engineers enthusiastically recommending the same video: 


A Cat Explains DNS.


It’s weirder than it sounds. It’s gloriously weird. I’ll throw a link in the comments so you can check it out. 


It’s riveting. 


Remember whom you’re marketing to: people who developed deep domain expertise because they care deeply about something few others do. These were the weird kids in your class who built a working submarine out of Legos in the fourth grade. 


It’s a mistake to think technical audiences are allergic to emotion-led messaging — passion for their work makes them who they are.


Go forth. Embrace the weird. Earn the eyeballs. 


https://lnkd.in/dBdNRJvj


Oh, and follow our page. We’re about to get weird."
I love this. Thought I’d share.
"The latest in our ‘the need for a new B2B playbook’ series. 
A republish but still relevant.


(To check the series out, click the link in the comments)"
"This is the fourth in a series about the new B2B GTM playbook. This week we focus on the role of #seo and content in the playbook.


See the comments for links to the previous articles in the series; and for more #b2bmarketing advice, give Velocity Partners a follow!"
"The third in our blog series about B2B’s new marketing playbook is now live. It covers the essential relationship between performance marketing and brand strategy together with why brands find it so difficult to build programs that blend the two.


Follow me for the next in the series covering B2B SEO and how to move from paid to organic - and get in touch with any questions/comments, it’d be great to hear from you.


#b2bmarketing #performancemarketing #brandstrategy"
Many B2B companies struggle with creating enough pipeline and selling to the right prospects despite massive investment in tools, tech and paid social. Our new blog series diagnoses why this is the case and what B2B marketing teams need to do about it. Read the first in our series and follow me for the next instalment. #b2bmarketing #contentmarketing #b2bleadgeneration