"It appears that the number of comment gate (Aka comment ransom posts) has significantly decreased


In my feed at least, despite commenting on many of them…..for research


Congrats and big applaud to the resistance, you know who you are, well done 🫡


I don’t hate those posts by the way as long as you send me the asset and it doesn’t start with a bold face lie such as this workflow replaces your $1 million marketing team😁"
"The outsiders (Non-Linkediners) found out about the AI action figures 😬


Brace yourselves, you will have terrifying flashbacks"
"Back in my day before LinkedIn thought leader ads were this cool thing everyone did


A few of us advertisers replicated the organic posts by taking screenshots of them and created them as image ads


When LinkedIn thought leader ads (TLAs) launched, many of us moved away from that approach.


But I’m starting to think that was a bad idea


Because there’s still a lot of benefits from using the screenshot approach 


Such as:
 👉 Being able to use the website visits objective


👉 Choosing the landing page you want to send them to rather than adding a link to the post


👉 Being able to doctor the post in the sense of adding the top comment that you want to display on it like in the example below 


There is clearly some drawbacks too:
 ❌ Comes from a company page, so it does look more like an ad


❌ Typically higher CPM’s in CPC’s (Typically…I’m finding in some accounts this is not the case!!)


❌ Real time engagement and comments of the post won’t show on the screenshot


❌ Organic posts videos do not work well as a screenshot 


Now don’t get me wrong. I’m not saying it’s the TLAs OR screenshot ads. I actually think it’s both. 


Been testing both recently(early) but feel like there is something there 


Landing page clicks are way up (makes a lot of sense) 


CTR - If measuring Apples to Apples (Engagement) it’s much lower but if measuring impressions/landing page clicks, it’s way up and around 0.8% to 1.5% which is strong for Li. Ads


Conversions - As mentioned, still early but right now it’s similar to TLAs


All in all, I’m bullish the organic social proof screenshot as is making a comeback!!


For image/text posts at least


Screenshotting videos is tough"
Those screenshots of a full calendar with back to back to back meetings, color coded with no buffer are not as much as a flex as you think they are.
Why do I get so much more joy from creating a GPT that saves me 2 hours than anything else?!
"I can’t tell if the ramp hiring crew is just really cool or Ramp is just ahead of the game.


Vibe growth marketers?! Luhh that"
"LinkedIn ads companies feature is still one of the best I’ve seen in a long time.


Because it helps both marketing AND sales and gives you directional data no other ad platform even comes close to.


The companies feature allows you to see the engagement, clicks, impressions both organically and paid


From any company you’re advertising NOT just an uploaded an account list


You can also add on a lot of filters such as:


👉 Past 7,30,60 or 90 days


👉 Specific campaignd


👉 Employee sizes


👉 include or exclude certain companies


👉 Countries


👉 An account list


👉 A minimum of 5 paid clicks, 100 impressions, 3 organic clicks, etc.


With that you can create a dynamic or static list for your LinkedIn advertising and export it to send to sales or upload to your CRM


A lot, a lot, a lot of functionality but more importantly:


It allows you to quazi impression cap companies - You create dynamic lists such as 350+ impressions in the last 7 days  to exclude in campaigns to spread your budget across companies more evenly.


You can export it every week and start looking for trends of companies with more paid clicks and engagements overtime, which is a good signal for sales to reach out. 


You can use it for attribution: Export that last 7, 30, 60, 90 days data from Linkedin as well as new contacts or opps or trials in your CRM from the same time period. 


You'll find things like demo requests from X,Y and Z company that also had 5 paid clicks and 107 paid impressions. 


Yet the source = direct traffic.


There is so many possiblities, yet I'm quite positive it's underused by many.


Don't do that


It's FREE"
"What it’s like visiting a B2B website in 2025


1/ Google the company you want to visit and click on the first listing


2/ Full-screen cookie consent takes up the screen


3/ Accept all because who actually reads those


4/ Homepage loads with a vague headline like “Powering digital acceleration for tomorrow’s transformative businesses like Google” (You don’t work at Google anymore, personalization failed).


5/ Pull up ChatGPT to translate, doesn’t help much.


6/ Autoplay video kicks in with dramatic piano, you mute it.


7/ Chatbot appears: “Hi there 👋 want to chat?” You click no, it asks “Are you sure?”


8/ You click X, It minimizes itself but keeps blinking like it’s judging you.


9/ Your look for the product page


10/ Realize it’s hidden under “Solutions” > “By Industry”, can’t find your exact industry


11/ You now look for pricing, see pricing link, click on pricing.


12/ No pricing, talk to sales.


13/ Frustrated, you leave the website 


14/ Next 3 days you are met with 78 remarketing ads and 5 emails starting with “We saw you were on our website” powered by Rb2b and Clay


15/ You give in and go back to the website


16/ Click on pricing, forgot it was just talk to sales but you endure, and you click on talk to sales.


17/ Redirected to “Book a demo” page and you start filling out the 9 field form


18/ Big alert message appear because you accidentally put in your personal email


19/ HDYAU field is required, you type in “internet” and slick submit


20/ Redirected to a thank you page that says we’ll reach out in 2-96 hours


21/ Try to leave website, exit intent pop up appears to download report. No option to say no, so you X out. 


22/ You wait for someone to reach out which blows your mind becuase they were so quick to email you when you didn’t request a demo.


23/ An AI SDR emails you at the 97th hour asking you the same questions you were asked when you filled out the form


It’ll get better soon, right?"
"Want people to click on your LinkedIn spotlight ads? 


Tell them not to


Make your CTA “Don’t click me” or “don’t click”


And you’ll see a higher CTR than see how, learn more, get demo, see the proof, etc. etc.


Tested it across 4 different companies so far and if you tell them not to click, they will.


Which actually sucks because I don’t want people to click on spotlight ads.


If they don’t, we don’t pay (if you use a manual cpc bidding model)


So my takeaway is to actually try really hard to get people to click for them not to click 🤦‍♂️"
"I’m calling bullshit


Those companies saying they’re completely replacing SDRs with AI? 


I’m sorry but I’m calling bullsheet.


I don’t believe you


Higher less SDR’s get more output because of AI? Sure 


Completely replace SDR’s and sales? Stop it, we’re not even close to being there.


Unless someone is actually doing it, and I’m wrong and you have receipts and you can prove it. Please do"
"This is why you should use account lists rather than industry targeting in Linkedin ads


You're missing out on 35% of the orgs your sales team would kiss your feet for (Or at least say great job) if they came through the door


The graph below is based off an account list of 9,879 software companies and the industry breakdown that they're categorized in Linkedin


For simplicity, I bucketed all the software related industries (I was very generous adding IT Services & Consulting, that ones a crapshoot) into the large square that makes up 65% of the account list. 


65% is a passing grade butttt


It also means if your target market is software orgs with 100+ employees, relying on industry targeting, you’re missing out.


Missing out on 35% of the orgs you’re sales team would love to talk to.


Unfortunately, you can’t target them.


Because the of companies you’d be wasting ad spend on if you targeted HR, financial or advertising would drive your CFO crazy.


A few examples of great software orgs that fall into this:
Bamboo HR - HR 
Klaviyo, Terminus, - Advertising services
Gusto, Divvy - Financial Services
SurveyMonkey - Market Research
Spotify - Musicians


Now this is just the missed opportunities 👀


You’re also wasting spend on orgs you couldn’t work with by using the software related industry targeting bc of how they’re categorized.


You'll typically see a lot of IT consultants, software developers, agencies, etc.


Don’t get me wrong, Linkedin has the best targeting in the world for B2B, not even close but it’s not perfect, nor should it be.


And yes there is definitely some upfront work needed to create an account list, and it can’t just be the classic 100 top accounts


But using an account list of all the companies you’re company can work with based on certain criteria (employee size, tech used, industries, etc.) that make the best customers is what you really want.


Doing this allows you get your message in front of the Klaviyos, Divvys and BambooHRs of the world with this platform and not waste a ton of money doing it.


So that sales can love you again! Or at least like you, a little ❤️


**Note: If you're wondering, if I took out IT Services & Consulting from that 65%, it would bring it down to 42%, leaving 58% missed opportunity!


⚠️ NOTE: As always it depends, I still do use industry targeting for scale. Some industries are more straight forward then others but for most use cases, use account lists"
"Last year, Linkedin launched one of the most underrated management features of all time: Dynamic URL parameters at the account and campaign level. 


It's been a bit since this was launched and yet I still see many accounts adding the UTMs on each ad.


Don't do that, use this feature. 


The time saved is priceless


Every companies CRM set up is different but here are some common utm parameters:


🟠 If using Hubspot: utm_source=linkedin&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign={{CAMPAIGN_NAME}}&hsa_cam={{CAMPAIGN_ID}}&utm_content={{CREATIVE_ID}}&hsa_acc={{ACCOUNT_ID}}&hsa_ver=3&hsa_grp={{CAMPAIGN_GROUP_ID}}&hsa_ad={{CREATIVE_ID}}&hsa_net=linkedin&hsa_ver=3


🔵 Not using Hubspot: utm_campaign={{CAMPAIGN_NAME}}&utm_content={{CREATIVE_ID}}&utm_source=linkedin&utm_medium=cpc 


A lot of B2B marketers come from the Google ads, Meta ads world not Linkedin so I know what you're thinking, other platforms have had this for ions.


You're right, they have but Linkedin is a B2B platform and B2B is 10 years late to everything, it's okay, better late than never, use it."
"Whatever happened to the cookie less world propaganda?


Can we bring that back? If another website asks me to accept cookies, I’m gonna freak out.


Or better yet, what if there was a master cookie? 


A cookie for life option? Everything can cookie me, but I only need to say yes once and that’s good for every device, every website, every app?


Track me, I personally don’t care, just stop asking me"
"Whatever happened to the cookie less world propaganda?


Can we bring that back? If another website asks me to accept cookies, I’m gonna freak out.


Or better yet, what if there was a master cookie? 


A cookie for life option? Everything can cookie me, but I only need to say yes once and that’s good for every device, every website, every app?


Track me, I personally don’t care, just stop asking me"
"The unspoken killer of many marketing campaigns: A CEO/Founder


We’ve all been there, you’re executing on an idea to launch a new channel, a new campaign, a new idea 


CEO is fully bought into the initial idea 


Told you to run with it 


You get everything ready, you’re about to launch


You give them an update, the full details


And 


They don’t love it


Not because it’s not good, not because you didn’t do your research, talk to your customers


They don’t love it because it won’t drive 176 leads a week


They don’t love it because the CTA isn’t talk to sales


They don’t love it because they wanted results yesterday 


They flip everything you had ready upside down. Switch to sales CTAs only, everything needs to be directly attributable.


Sales better be hounding everyone that engages, every likes, every comment, every email until they buy. 


You push back, you warn them, you explain why we shouldn’t.


You reference the initial idea that they said “run with it”


But at the end of the day they have the final call, what are you supposed to do?


You oblige, you change it.


And when it doesn’t work? It’s still your fault.


And the unspoken killer completely moves on


Like anything this is clearly not true for all CEOs and founders


But for fudge sakes, it’s more common than it should be"
"When things are good, things are good.


No one cares where the revenue’s coming from or that you have 3 tools that all do the same thing.


Attribution gets brought up but to see where you can spend more, not to slash.


When things are bad, things are bad.


Every channel, platform, campaign, ad, headline and person is scrutinized and needs to be attributed to the bottom line.


Which fudging sucks.


Love me an attribution tool, a how did you hear us about field, UTMs (Fudge all that privacy stuff, track, cookie and tag me!), all of it.


But let’s be honest, the best marketing is really hard to track despite what you CRM says.


We all know it but that can’t be a slide in your deck to the execs, you’ll get ripped apart.


Which sucks because your best marketing campaign never got started, or got shut down one week in bc there was no revenue yet.


It hinders innovation, it pushes you to easily attributable things which aren’t always the best.


Unfortunately, I don’t think there is a good or right answer. 


It’s got to be a mix of everything
👉 UTMs
👉 Talking to customers
👉 How did you hear about us field
👉 View-through, click-through, see-through and influenced
👉 Straight up vibes - Do we feel like it’s right? Is it hitting the right audience with the right message? VIBES


I’ve been a performance marketer and advertiser most of my career. 


If we could track everything, I would, who wouldn’t? But we should all recognize that it’s really hard, flawed and quite simply not possible.


Or maybe AI will solve it and track everything, who knows 🤷‍♂️"
"If I was rubbing one of my many YETI mugs and a magic genie suddenly appeared giving me 1 wish


I’m quite positive I’d ask it to make it so I never need to uncheck LinkedIn audience network from a LinkedIn campaign"
"Is the LinkedIn organic boosted post option any good?


TBH, it’s not as terrible as I thought it would be.


When I heard you could start boosting your organic posts directly from LinkedIn (Not as a thought leader ad, directly from your organic profile) 


I thought it would be like Facebook boosted posts used to be where the functionality just wasn’t near as good as if you ran it through the ads platform.


I still would run your organic post as a thought leader ad bc there is better options


But this new boost feature does give you a lot of optionality


You can target by job titles, seniority, and function, industries, and even add exclusions.


⚠️No company size option though which I feel like is a big miss⚠️


It’ll even give you an idea of how many impressions views you can expect with your money.


Not bad for people that have no idea or no care to start with creating an ad account.


Nowhere near the level of if you went through in that account, so I’m still going to do that but it’s not terrible."
"If anyone else saw the Google VEO3 video creation and thought, awesome! 


I’ll just upgrade my account and create awesome talking AI videos with a single prompt just like the videos


ChatGPTs image creation was pretty easy, it’s all about the prompt


Nope, not that easy"
"What’s worst? Buying a car or buying a B2B product?


Trying to buy a B2B product and it’s not even close 🥹"
"Turns out you can buy “qualified” leads off Fiverr.


And when you call them, someone will pick up, but it’ll just be the same person with different accents and different talk tracks.


If we’re being realistic, my 1 year old could of told you buying 100 “qualified” leads off Fiverr would have been a disaster


But the real question, how is that any different content syndication!? 


Similar outcome 


At least the fiverr leads picked up the phone 🤦‍♂️


Relaxxx, it’s just a joke


Or is it…."
"Builder.ai files for bankruptcy after $445M in funding.


They also claim to be a platform for every single company on the planet.


Coincidence?? I think not!"
"Did anyone else NOT know what an em dash was before people on LinkedIn starting hating on it? 🫠


And yes, I have read a book, I just didn’t care that there was a longer dash in between words


b2brizz.com"
People that think everything needs to be a deck, who hurt you?
"Linkedin thought leader ads are still to this day, slept on by many


and the the beauty is, you don’t need a CEO with 43,000 followers to run them for your business.


Shoot, you don’t even need an employee that posts on LinkedIn.


And they can still be a wildly successful ad unit for you.


Two underrated and underutilized ways:


1️⃣ Influencer Marketing/ Advisor Posts


If you’re already working with creators, or advisors that post about your brand, you can (Should) be run those posts as thought leaders ads.


B2B influencer marketing is on the up and up right now.


And if you’re not spending a little extra money to pay to get those posts in front of your exact buyers with TLAs, what are you doing?? 


That post you paid for from (the hopefully) trusted creator to create, can get in front of your dream customers. 


It’s a no brainer


If someone isn’t already creating posts for your brand, I think you’d be surprised how low cost posts from creators can be


Especially, if you sweeten the pot with guaranteed distribution with TLAs, you might find some great partnerships. 
 
2️⃣ Customers and Advocates
For some brands, you can just type your company name in LinkedIn search, click on posts and look for posts where people are talking about your brand.


Look through those for decent engagement posts and just reach out.


Ask if they are open to you running that post as a thought leader ad.


The extra awareness of the content/ love for your brand, is usually enough to say “Yea, go for it!”. (I’ve done this on both sides, it works)


You could also look through your customer base, looking for users also posting on LinkedIn and ask them to post if they’re open to it.


You might have to incentivize them but if they love your product, happy with results, they might just post free of charge.


And then run that as a Thought Leadership ad 


Don’t get me wrong, an employee, your CEO, executive team members that already post on LinkedIn is going to be easier and usually better for thought leader ads


But if you don’t, that’s okay, there is other ways to run them


And you should, because they work because people buy from people 😉"
"What's your favorite Slack tip and/or rules for Slack etiquette?


For example: I don't use the number list format, I use bullet points and put 1. 2. 3. etc. because then I can add a space in between so it's more viewable.


And maybe that is stupid, please let me know 


When should you use reply in thread vs. not? Or reply in thread but to the channel?


If you add a link do you hyperlink it or just let it fly??


Do you use the Slack to do lists??


What you got? I'm trying to uplevel thy Slack communication skills"
"Welp we are in it folks. Someone posted about how to consistently go viral on Linkedin AFTER complaining about the Linkedin algorithm limiting their reach just a few weeks ago.


We are officially in the thick of delusional Linkedin land"
"Two constants in B2B you can always rely on:


1. Growth goals never stop, always bigger, no matter what


And not just bigger, oftentimes absurd with less resources


2. Buying is extremely hard, you have so many hoops and barriers to go through to see pricing or even get a demo.


Sooo while we all have to hit growth goals plucked out of thin air, we also make it super hard to buy which is how you hit growth goals…


Little weird, right?"
"LinkedIn Ads are the most annoying channel in B2B.


You spend thousands, many many thousands, even millions and no one really clicks (0.5% CTR has you jumping up and down with joy).


 No one converts directly and your attribution report looks like a tumbleweed rolling across a desert.


And then…
Two weeks later, your sales team gets a random inbound, and the prospect says: “Oh yeah, I saw something about you on LinkedIn.”


WHAT. WHERE. HOW. SHOW ME THE RECEIPTS.


Spoiler: there are none.


This is the part where your boss asks, “But what’s the ROI?” and you have to walk them through a crime scene of partial UTM tags, view-through conversions, and Slack messages that say: “Someone shared this ad, thought it was interesting.”


It’s not clean, and It doesn’t convert like Google or even Meta ads


But it works.


People don’t click anymore, they lurk, they screenshot.


They send your ad to manager Milly, who goes on vacation, then shows up three weeks later on a demo saying, “I’ve been see your ads for a while.”


Maybe LinkedIn Ads isn’t broken, maybe it's that your attribution expectations are? 


Because people buy how they want to buy. Not how you want them to buy.


Welcome to the chaos of LinkedIn Ads 😁"
I’m happy to share that I’m starting a new position as Co-Host at Notorious B2B!
"Going out on your own, starting a business is so interesting. In the same 6 weeks, you’ll go from


I don’t know why I didn’t go out on my own earlier, this is the best life hack ever


to


3 customers are leaving…..Welp, I gave it a try, time to pack it up and find a full time job. Do I need to decrease my fee, start a lower end service?


Simultaneously updating your resume while changing pricing on your website twice a day


to 


Oh wow, I have too much business, I need to start saying no. Should I hire someone?


All within the same 6 weeks


Interesting? Or chaos??"
If you don’t give your Mother at least 22 qualified, ICP leads for Mother’s Day, you’re doing something wrong
"I was curious so I switched my company size from 1 employee to 11 to 50 employees


And for fudge sakes that was a mistake.


Having a CEO/founder title at an 11-50 employee company adds you to a bajillion Clay list outreach sequences 


I know it sounds like I’m exaggerating but I’m not, the cold email pitches increased 9x 


And that’s only 11-50 employees 


Next stop: 51-200 employees, what do you think? 


31.7X increase?"
"B2B Acronyms and jargon simplified…..You’re welcome 


Dark social = Word of mouth / Brand / Other


ABM = Marketing to specific companies


ABX = ABM


PLG = A free trial


ACV = Money they pay you the first year


Lead = Form fill with email address (Preferably business email)


MQL = A lead with a decent title at a company you could work with 


SQL = A better lead


ICP = Companies that usually buy from you 


Buyer Persona = ICP but at the person level


MOPs = a team of people that clean up messy data with a metaphorical mop


Revenue Operations (ROPs) = Cooler version of Marketing Operations, same thing though 


CRO (Conversion rate optimization) = Make people convert better


CRO (Chief revenue officer) = Head of sales


Demand Generation = Marketing but only used in tech world


Direct Traffic = A black box of everything that can’t get tracked properly so is it dark social??


Retargeting = Friendly stalking


Growth Marketer = Does every marketing function + some sales


Relaxxxx, it’s just a joke, but seriously, no need to over complicate them 😁"
"Duolingo posts about going deeper into AI and people freak out.


A lot of negative comments, people stopping their streaks, writing them off.


But also, they’re now getting courses that took 12 months done in 12 hours.


If the quality is the same, that is crazy!


Regardless,


Episode 8 of Notorious B2B is out! Tas Bober and I cover a few interestingggg topics: 


• Deel's legal rebuttle 
• Exit Five rejection (ish) emails go out 😬
• Duolingo boycott after going ""AI-first"" 
• Are LinkedIn influencers actually bad hires?


Oh, and someone may or may not be trying to use LinkedIn as a dating site?


To be honest, in some cases I do feel like it could work


Take a listen, a watch, a skim anywhere you like to consume content"
"Sometimes hard work does pay off


Thank you for noticing, James"
"35 LinkedIn ad rules to live by (for most)


1/ Don’t target a huge audience size
2/ Don’t target too narrow of an audience
3/ Your audience size is your audience size. Calculate it.


4/ Track EVERYTHING --> demos, pricing page visits, closed won
5/ Don’t make decisions solely on what’s trackable or attributable, you’ll lose


6/ Job title targeting isn’t perfect. Exclusions matter
7/ Don’t skimp on exclusions --> competitors, interns, students, etc.
8/ Don’t over-exclude --> Some specialist titles will remove real buyers


9/ Do NOT use audience expansion
10/ Do NOT use LinkedIn Audience Network
11/ Manual bidding over maximum delivery (in most cases)


12/ Use company upload lists when possible
13/ Industry targeting is flawed, not useless, just unreliable
14/ Use company lists AND titles over contact list uploads


15/ If you can use Thought Leader Ads, DO IT
16/ Running TLAs? Edit the post and add a CTA link


17/ Outside of LGFs and TLAs, use the Website Visits objective
18/ Don’t use the Campaign Group objective. Zero value, pure annoyance


19/ Only running lead gen forms is silly
20/ Not testing lead gen forms is just as silly


21/ Remarketing is absolute gold, use it
22/ Don’t ungate everything just because your LinkedIn feed says not to


23/ OR audiences vs AND audiences are two very different things
24/ Text and Spotlight ads have super low CPMs if you use manual CPC bidding
25/ Start by bidding under the ""What others are bidding recommendation""


26/ Job title targeting works
27/ Seniority/Function targeting also works, test both


28/ Test 4+ ad variations per campaign (At minimum)
29/ Image/video for Sponsored Content first, then everything else
30 / When in doubt, square it out. Square images are the best overall ad size
31/ People see your ad first, then description, then headline. Adjust accordingly


32/ Landing page clicks, clicks and engagements are different things
33/ Don't listen to the auto-recommendations Linkedin gives you. You'll regret it
34/ Frequency matters --> 12 to 15 at the campaign level, 2 to 3 at the ad level
35/ Check the demographics report, and use the companies feature. Crucial for optimization


Just to name a few. As always, it depends.


P.S. Linkedin audience network fan, I know, I know. There are ways to use it. I’m just saying... for most 😁"
"Why does it feel like AI in marketing is simultaneously loved and despised?


👉Marketers using AI get:


“There’s an em dash in your content, you’re using AI!! Ewww”


“What is this AI slop??”


“STOP using AI images”


“Using AI in SEO doesn’t work”


“AI content just blends in, don’t do it”


👉While also getting:


“If you’re not using AI you’re going to get left behind”


“Use AI to scale your content”


“AI is changing marketing forever”


“AI marketing is the future”


“You spelled that wrong, I’m not never buying from you!!”


“Can we do it faster with AI”


“You’re not AI enabled? Ewww”


It seems like there is no winning


Look, I know the answer is somewhere in the middle, but dag nammit, quit hating on marketers for using it and not using it"
"Linkedin ads attribution is hard, really really hard.


Everyone wants this perfect original source = X report that has more holes than ROI math in a content syndication pitch.


Butttt we all need to do it bc on the other side of things, that’s when you just spend like a maniac on silly stuff and call it “Brand”.


You NEED to be looking at many different things and touch points bc everyone buys how they want to buy, NOT how you want them to buy. 


This is especially true for Linkedin ads


In a perfect world, I can pull a Hubspot report that shows:
Original source = Paid Social
Original source drill down 1 = Linkedin
Original source drill down 2 = Money_Campaign_ABM_2024


I would absolutely love that. My life would be so much easier.


Yes, there will be some of that


But it’s just not how people buy, there will be some of that but if it’s all you’re looking at, you’re missing out


You NEED to also be looking at:
✅ Click conversion in Linkedin ads
✅ View conversions in Linkedin ads
✅ HDYAU (How did you hear about us)
✅ Impressions and frequency to target accounts within the CRM such as Fibbler or using the companies feature in Linkedin and correlate paid impressions, clicks, engagements to new contacts
✅ If you’re using an attribution tool, using those with different models too
✅ Gut feeling aka vibes


It can’t be OR, this model OR this way


It needs to be AND AND AND


That is because not everyone clicks on your LinkedIn ads, most don’t


If you have a 1% CTR you’re jumping up and down with joy


People lurk, they screenshat, they consume, it’s just what people do.


People see it, click but don’t convert or they convert later


All are hard to track and don’t give you a perfect report


And that is okay


Just think about how you buy, how you consume content, it’s not how you’re trying to measure your channels.


If you’re relying on click, cookie, convert, you’re missing out"
"For years as a marketer, I would get so mad at sales for complaining about a sales call or lead that used a personal email


It used to make me so mad


I’d jump into the slack conversations


Tell sales to get off their high horse in much nicer words, of course


Debate personal email vs business email like my career depended on….


And now that I am in sales


I will say


I was wrong, very very wrong


I’m sorry"
I'm usually not a big fan of a teams meeting but I must say they might starting to winning me over with this waiting room background
"I’m finding myself telling more people to NOT use LinkedIn ads than to use them.


Which sounds crazy because I sell LinkedIn ads services.


Buttttt it’s the truth.


Sometimes the content that I (and others) put out about LinkedIn ads can make it look amazing.


The perfect thing for your company.


So much pipeline, so much revenue, you can target your exact buyer!


Those claims aren’t wrong.


But unfortunately for many companies, it will NOT work like that.


And it would just be weird to put an asterisk and list of caveats on all LinkedIn ads content.


I wish there were set in stone rules on who should and shouldn’t, but I have seen outliers in most cases so it’s hard to say.


But sheet, I’ll give it a try.


👉 If you need demos NOW, look at Google ads, not LinkedIn ads. LinkedIn is social. It’s not hand raisers. It’s people scrolling.


Yeah, there is remarketing and “intent data” and all that, but there are a lot of flaws there.


LinkedIn ads is a long term play. If you need demos this month, it shouldn’t be your first choice.


👉 If you have a low ACV product which usually means a big TAM, I’d start with Google ads or Facebook/Instagram.


It’s more expensive to reach one person on LinkedIn than on other platforms, so I wouldn’t start here.


👉 If product market fit = unknown. You need to figure that out first or you’ll just waste money and swear LinkedIn ads off for the rest of your life.


👉 Everything needs to be direct attribution down to the ad level? Go use Google ads or Meta ads. Don’t get me wrong. You will see direct attribution. But if that’s all you’re looking at, you’re missing out on so much more.


LinkedIn doesn’t have the algorithm that Meta has. It can’t find people ready to buy in the moment like Meta does.


Google ads is all intent. People book demos directly.


LinkedIn will break your heart if you try and attribute everything to it.


Of course, there are outliers for all of the above. But LinkedIn ads aren’t for every B2B company.


They’re just not"
"We all know marketing and sales are supposed to be on the same team, two fruits of the same vine if you want to make ABM work.


But oftentimes, it feels like we’re on completely different trees.


And that’s sad, really really really sad


Now the biggest problems usually come from misaligned goals, and a lack of understanding of how marketing actually works.


The organization as a whole usually has one overarching KPI: a revenue number 


But marketing and sales have different goals and different incentive programs


For some reason execs also think marketing is like magic. 


New ads, new emails, new anything went live yesterday, where’s all the leads? The very next day.


This isn’t Marketingwarts school of magic


Execs want more and a lot of leads and MQLs out of marketing


And sales doesn’t get put on a PIP if they close deals


Both going on their merry way assuming the other is doing what is best to help each other (Or not and just doing their own thing)


Two different goals but i know you know I know that more leads don’t equal more pipeline or revenue


And that gap is not good


Misaligned goals = misaligned marketing and sales team = wasted budget, attribution wars and chaos.


The good thing is the fix can be easy


1️⃣ Shared pipeline and revenue goals : Don’t congratulate marketing and leads, congratulate and incentivize them on pipeline and revenue.


2️⃣ Communication: I know this can be the answer for most things but that’s because it’s true. 


Weekly check ins with each team, a buzzing Slack group that’s constantly updating each other goes a very long way 


3️⃣ Tighter feedback loops: Marketing should be listening to sales calls, listen to the calls like a podcast, you’d be surprised what you could learn 


Sales give marketing feedback on what you’re seeing as well ASAP


And adapt 


Those feedback loops will go a long way 


Pipleine from ABM isn’t marketing’s job, it isn’t sales’ job, It’s everyone’s job.


Stop growing two different fruits on two different trees


You want to make ABM work? Marketing and sales need to be aligned 


Thank you Demandbase for sponsoring this video.


They of all organizations know how impactful the alignment between marketing and sales can be, and their platform shows it."
Incase you were wondering, flexing that you have 24,341 followers on LinkedIn to anyone outside of people LinkedIn is not as cool as it sounds on LinkedIn
POV, you work in B2B marketing
"“Congrats, Now I Hate You” turns out to be a controversial email subject line.


Is just me or are we all worrying about the wrong things?!


Then again Tas Bober and I talked about it on the podcast so maybe it is?


Episode 5 of Notorious B2B is out. We cover: 


- The grueling Exit Five application process to attend Drive 🥹


- The subject line drama with Devin Reed


- The truth about RB2B’s CRM data collection


- Why every website visitor tool might be lying? Or are they?


And a few other things 


Youtube 
Spotify
Apple 


All the places 


Check it out, you won’t"
"The default Linkedin ads bidding option (Maximum delivery) will cost you more than 2X than manual bidding.


Tested this recently on a $1,250 per day campaign. Primarily Manger to CXO titles at 200+ employee companies from a specific account list


Started off with manual CPC bidding on a website clicks campaign
- Average CPC: $19
- Average CPM: $51


Changed it to maximum delivery and immediately the CPCs and CPMs skyrocketed.
- Average CPC: $38
- Average CPM: $103


Landing page clicks dropped by 2X from 66 per day to 33. 


Same audience, same creative, same messaging. Cost doubled


I wouldn't care this much about talking about it if it wasn't the default bidding in Linkedin ads so a lot of companies are using it and wasting a lot of money.


CPMs and clicks are clearly not everything but if you know your audience and targeting is dialed in, you should want to reach as much of your audience. 


Especially with brand campaigns, the goal is to get your message in front of your buyers, using cost cap or CPC bidding is going be far more effective.


Using the manual CPC bidding option and bid 20 to 30% lower than the range Linkedin gives you and adjust if you're not spending your daily budget.


Max delivery = less results for 97.3% of scenarios in Linkedin ads, don't do it.


I tested it so you don't have to, please don't fall for the trap 🥹"
"Reddit ads are the middle child of the B2B ad world


No one knows what to do with it yet we know it’s there and at a much lower cost than it’s older and younger siblings


You buyers are there


You know it has a lot of loyal users and tons of traffic


It shows up for buying intent google searches


And as a consumer, you use it more now than you ever did


But there is no good courses, and rarely anyone talks about it…


Until now


The team over at AdConversion just launched their new Reddit Ads course


For a very low cost of FREE.99


Brought to you by Kris Wojcik (Chief Experimentation Officer) 👨🏼‍🔬


If you’ve ever wanted to get more out of the neglected middle child, this course shows you exactly how to do so


Check it out, you won’t"
"While everyone on LinkedIn is using ChatGPT to create action figures of themselves, my wife is using it to reshape our backyard


Step it up, Linkedin!


Ugh I’m in trouble"
"Just so I understand, these days grammar and spelling in content can’t be wrong but it also can’t be too right, right?


If we use the wrong grammar or misspell a word, the grammar police grabs their pitch forks and attacks with full force.


But If we use perfect grammar and dare I say, em dashes, it’s deemed AI, and the pitch forks still come out in full force.


Soooo we can’t be wrong, but we can’t perfect, we need to be right with flaws??"